A few Ideas for our Capstone Modules
I like the idea of creating paper crafts that can be easily printed out or even recreated using any paper. 
The goal is to help as many students learn without the need for expensive equipment and to reach as broad an audience as possible. 
We may be able to design a simple site that allows for teachers to download this information and recreate it or print them out. 


Authentication and 2 factor Authentication
I envision this being a group activity in two parts. 
The first part would consist of paper trucks entering a “Warehouse”. 
It can be explained that to enter the warehouse, each truck coming must have the correct license plate number to enter (These don’t need to be large numbers either). 
These can be printed on the side of the truck and have a preselected list of numbers that are allowed to enter. 
Students can discuss whether or not the truck should be allowed access to the warehouse based on this criteria. 


We can then ask the students the question, “What if a driver who isn’t allowed in uses a truck that is allowed to enter?” and with this we can introduce the idea of 2 Factor Authentication. 
We can introduce a “Driver ID” that accompanies each truck, these can be tiny pieces of paper with a small number for the driver. 
If both the ID and the Truck Number paired together match a pre approved list the truck can be allowed to enter. 
We can introduce interesting scenarios like what if an approved ID is on the list and the approved Truck ID is on the list but they aren’t paired with each other. 


We can have tiny truck printouts that have numbers printed on them, we can have little IDs cards that have a number on them as well. 
This exercise would teach students about how authentication works as well as the advantages of two factor authentication. 


Importance of Encryption
This idea piggybacks off of Konnor’s great caesar's cipher code wheel idea. We can create a group of 3 students, students A, B and C will take turns in each role. 
Student A wants to pass a message to student C but the message is passed through student B first. Student B can then read the message and pass it to Student C. 
This is a great illustration of a man-in-the-middle attack. With this, student B will easily be able to read the message on the paper.


In the second part we can have Student A and C secretly agree on a number between 1 and 26, this number will be used to encrypt the message with the Konnor’s code wheel cipher.  
Student A can then pass the letter to Student B who will attempt to read the message aloud before passing it to Student C who will use the prearranged number to decode the message and read it aloud. 


All of these ideas are work in progress and can be expanded upon if needed. We can add more here if needed and I am open to feedback!












